
Physics
*******


Table of Contents
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

* Physics

  * Preparing for Use

  * Static Physics Type

  * Dynamic Physics Type

  * Constraints

  * Wheeled Vehicles

    * Chassis Settings

  * Floating Objects

    * Floating Object Settings

  * Floating Vehicles aka Watercrafts

    * Watercraft Settings

  * Characters

    * Character Settings

    * Basic Character

  * Use in Applications


Preparing for Use
=================

In order to enable physics on the scene, please use the "Enable
Physics" checkbox in the "Physics" panel under the scene tab in
Blender.

[图片]




Static Physics Type
===================

Can be used to limit the movement of other objects, for example to
detect collisions with a landscape, walls and so on. In the physics
settings of such an object the "Static" value (set by default) should
be selected for the "Physics Type" option.

[图片]



One or multiple physics materials can be assigned to a mesh. Under the
"Material" tab the "Special: Collision" panel must be activated.

[图片]



The "Ghost" option excludes the material from physical interactions
but still notifies the application about the contact with it. An
example - detecting that the character is located on a vertical
ladder.

[图片]



The "Collision ID" field is intended for detecting collisions with
specific materials and can be left empty. An example of "Collision ID"
usage is detecting the landscape surface a character is located on -
grass, sand, wooden coating and so on.

The "Margin" field allows to customize the width of the zone where
mesh reacts on collisions. This option improves physical collisions
simulation stability.

Also, there are material physics settings in this panel. The following
settings are supported: "Friction", "Elasticity".

The "Collision Group" field corresponds to the physics group which the
material belongs to. The "Collision Mask" field defines all physics
groups with which this material will interact.


Dynamic Physics Type
====================

Intended for rigid body movement simulation.

[图片]



The "Object Physics" checkbox must be enabled under the object's
"Physics" panel. The "Collision ID" field is intended for detecting
collisions with a specific object (for example, for detecting
proximity of a FPS character to different items) and can be left
empty.

In the physics settings of such an object the "Rigid Body" (with
rotations) or "Dynamic" (without rotations) values can be selected for
the "Physics Type" option. In the "Collision Bounds" settings the
collider type can be selected - the supported types are: "Box",
"Capsule", "Sphere", "Cylinder", "Cone". Also, the following physics
parameters can be set: "Mass", "Damping" - for "Translation" and
"Rotation".

The "Collision Group" field corresponds to the physics group which the
object belongs to.

The "Collision Mask" field defines all physics groups with which this
object will interact.

[图片]



"Friction" and "Elasticity" are supported for the material of such an
object. When multiple materials are used on a single mesh, the physics
parameters are taken from the first of them.

For the camera object the "Physics Type" = "Dynamic" parameter must be
used, and the "Object Physics" checkbox must be enabled.


Constraints
===========

Physical constraints are used for limiting the objects' degrees of
freedom.

[图片]



Adding a physical constraint ("Rigid Body Joint") to the object can be
performed on the "Object Constraints" panel. The supported types
("Pivot Type") are: "Ball", "Hinge", "Cone Twist", "Generic 6 DoF". A
physical constraint can be added to one of the two interacting
objects, while the other object acts as a "Target". Both objects can
have a static and/or dynamic physics type. In constraints (except
"Ball") the translation and rotation limits can be set up.

[图片]




Wheeled Vehicles
================

The model of a vehicle must consist of 6 separate objects - a chassis,
4 wheels and a steering wheel. The chassis' mesh center should
correspond to the mass center. The centers of the wheels' and the
steering wheel's meshes should be located on the rotation axes. The
steering wheel should be oriented in the local space of coordinates -
X - the rotation axis, Y - to the right and Z - upwards. The object
can have any names.

[图片]



For all 6 objects: select the "Part", specify the same id in the
"Vehicle Name" field, select the right object type - "Chassis",
"Steering Wheel", "Back Right Wheel" and so on. The "Suspension Rest
Length" setting is also available for the wheels.

It is necessary to specify a realistic mass for the chassis (because
the default value is only 1 kg). To do this go to the physics
settings, choose the "Rigid Body" value for the "Physics Type" option
and specify the required value (for example, 1000 kg) in the "Mass"
field.


Chassis Settings
----------------

*Force Max*
   Maximum driving force of the vehicle.

*Brake Max*
   Maximum braking coefficient.

*Suspension Compression*
   Damping coefficient for suspension stretching.

*Suspension Stiffness*
   Suspension stiffness coefficient.

*Suspension Damping*
   Suspension damping coefficient.

*Wheel Friction*
   Friction constant between the wheels and the surface. It should be
   around 0.8 for realistic vehicles. But it can be increased
   significantly to achieve a better control (1000 and more).

*Roll Influence*
   Decreases the wheels' torque decreasing the probability of the
   vehicle overturning (0 - no torque, 1 - real physics behavior).

*Max Suspension Travel Cm*
   Maximum suspension travel in centimeters.

For the "Steering Wheel" it is necessary to specify the maximum
steering angle ("Steering Max") and the ratio between the turn of the
steering wheel and the turn of the wheels  ("Steering Ratio"). The
maximum steering angle value is specified in revolutions. A single
revolution equals to 360 degrees. Therefore, if "Steering Max" is
equal to one and "Steering Ratio" is equal to 10, the maximum turn of
the steering wheel will be 360 degrees and the maximum turn of the
front wheels will be 36 degrees.

On this stage you can export and load the scene into the engine. We
recommend to create a road surface with a physics material. To choose
the controlled object press the "Q" key in the Viewer and select the
chassis. Use the "W", "A", "S", "D" keys as controls.

We can additionally tweak the "Damping" of "Translation" and
"Rotation". This will influence the speed and inertia of the vehicle.

The friction and elasticity of the road surface material do not
influence the vehicle's behavior.


Floating Objects
================

[图片]



In order for the object to float on the water surface (an object with
the "Water" material), it is necessary to enable the "Floater" panel.
There are two types of floating objects: "Main Body" - the floating
object itself and "Bob" - an auxiliary bob-object onto which the
buoyancy will be acting. A floating object can have an unlimited
number of "Bob" objects. This can be both meshes or "Empty" objects.

All objects that are part of the same floating object must have the
same name in the "Floater Name" field.


Floating Object Settings
------------------------

*Floating Factor*
   Buoyancy coefficient.

*Water Linear Damping*
   Linear velocity damping when the object is on the water surface (or
   under water). When the object is not in water, the physics settings
   are used.

*Water Rotation Damping*
   Rotation damping when the object is on the water surface (or under
   water). When the object is not in water, the physics settings are
   used.


Floating Vehicles aka Watercrafts
=================================

[图片]



Watercrafts use some parameters from the "Vehicle" settings and all
the settings which are similar to "Floater" setting. It is necessary
to set the "Part" type "Hull" on the main object. Similar to a
floating object a watercraft requires auxiliary "Bob" objects.


Watercraft Settings
-------------------

*Force Max*
   Maximum driving force of the vehicle.

*Brake Max*
   Maximum braking coefficient.

*Floating Factor*
   Buoyancy coefficient.

*Water Linear Damping*
   Linear velocity damping when the object is on the water surface (or
   under water). When the object is not in water, the physics settings
   are used.

*Water Rotation Damping*
   Rotation damping when the object is on the water surface (or under
   water). When the object is not in water, the physics settings are
   used.


Characters
==========

[图片]

This feature can be activated by clicking the "Character" check-box in
the title of the eponymous tab on the "Physics" panel.

From the engine standpoint, the character itself is a proper physical
object that can collide with other physical objects or be influenced
by physical forces such as gravity and buoyant force.

Character object can be easily controlled using several API methods
with a *character* keyword in their names. All such methods reside in
the physics API module.


Character Settings
------------------

[图片]

All the settings listed here become available after activating the
"Character" tab.

*Walk Speed*
   This parameter sets the speed of a character walking (measured in
   meters per second). The lowest possible value of this parameter is
   zero, while the highest is 10.

   Its default value is 4.

*Run Speed*
   This is the speed of the character running (measured in meters per
   second). Its value can vary from zero to 20.

   This parameter is set to 8 by default.

*Step Height*
   This is the maximum height of an obstacle that character can
   overstep (in meters). The value of this parameter can vary from
   zero to 1.

   Default value of this parameter is 0.250.

*Jump Strength*
   This parameter sets the strength of the character jumping. Its
   minimum value is zero, while its maximum value is 50.

   Set to 5 by default.

*Waterline*
   This parameter sets up the waterline for the character object. The
   waterline is measured from the center of the physical shape of the
   object (not the object's mesh). If an object is submerged into the
   water below this line, it will float. Its value can vary from -2 to
   2.

   It is set to zero by default.


Basic Character
---------------

Blend4Web engine has an option to quickly set up a user-controlled
first-person character. Such character will only have very basic
functionality, but can be set up without any programming.

To set up a basic character, follow these steps:

1. Select an object you intend to use as a character.

2. Enable physics for the selected object and set physics type to
   "Dynamic" or "Rigid Body".

3. Enable Character option for the object.

4. Create a new Camera or select an existing one and set its type
   to "Eye".

Now a basic character with an attached camera will be present in your
scene.

The character can be controlled in mostly the same way as a regular
"Eye" type camera:

* WASD keys move the character.

* Camera angles are controlled by arrow keys or moving the mouse
  while holding its left button.

* Pressing the C key toggles fly mode (enabled by default).

注解: Only one basic character can be present in the scene. If a
  scene has multiple characters, the engine will use the first of them
  as the basic character and ignore the others.


Use in Applications
===================

The physics system is implemented in the **uranium.js** module and
loaded separately from the engine's main code. The **uranium.js**
module itself is a modification of the Bullet physics engine, which is
ported to work in browsers. In order to activate the physics system,
it is enough to put the **uranium.js** and **uranium.js.mem** files in
the same directory as the source code of the application.

Another way is to explicitly specify the loading path of the
**uranium.js** module by using the following API method:

   m_config.set("physics_uranium_path", ".../uranium.js");

注解: When applications are developed within the SDK, the path to
  the physics engine is detected automatically.

If your application does not use physics, we recommend you to turn off
the "Enable Physics" flag in the "Physics" panel under the scene tab
in Blender. It is also possible to forcibly disable loading of the
**uranium.js** module by calling the following method before
initialization of the engine:

   m_config.set("physics_enabled", false);
